Software Requirement Specification
*ALL SUBJECT FOR CHANGE
The Frontenders: Mark-Anthony Andrade, Isaac Thomas, Luci Tran, Thomas Truong

Purpose:(Isaac)
The goal of this project is to create a website application that allows clients to put items up for 
auction and to allow other clients to bid for said items. 

Scope:(Isaac)
The “Front Yard Sale” is a website application that helps users get rid of unwanted items buy auctioning 
off their items. Other users can bid for items they want available on the website application until the 
auction timer ends. Auctioneers can provide information about the item being auctioned as well as set the 
starting price, bid increment, and timer of the item. Administrators monitor suspicious activity of auctions 
(fake items, cancel wins, etc.). 

Product Perspective: (Isaac)

	System Interfaces: (Isaac)
  The Front Yard Sale system will contain user information, items auctioned, bidding prices, transaction 
  information, and times of the auctions. This is needed to track the winners of an auction and where to 
  send the item won. This information will be held on a single database because the clientele will only be 
  held in the United States of America. Client/Server implementation will be needed for the client to 
  communicate with the database (front-end and back-end) with the server being the DBMS (Database Management System).   

	User Interfaces(Isaac):
  A new user of the website application should see the popular items auctioned when opening the site as well as 
  a sign-in/sign-up option on the left side of the page. If the user signs in, then the sign-in option will be 
  replaced with more items on the auction and an option to change account settings on the “top right”. The sign-up 
  option will take the user to insert information to create their account. Additionally, there will be a checkbox 
  as an option of the sign-up process that allows the user to appear “anonymous”. This option can also be changed 
  after account creation. Once the user has logged in, the search will also appear at the top of the website. 
  The user will have the option to auction an item by clicking on a location TBD, or to bid for items by clicking 
  on a location TBD. The location of payment option will be TBD. 

	Hardware Interfaces: (Isaac)
  The hardware interface for the system shall be required connection to the internet. This can be via wireless access 
  network(WAN), local-area network (LAN), or ethernet.    

	Software Interfaces: (Isaac)
  The software we are using is XAMPP (X-Cross Platform, A-Apache, M-MariaDB, P-PHP, P-Perl). The software we will use 
  provided by XAMPP will be MySQL for the database, phpMyAdmin to monitor the database, and Apache web server. HTTP 
  protocol will be used using port 80. The versions of each software are below:

    XAMPP 1.8.3
    Apache 2.4.9
    MySQL 5.6.16
    phpMyAdmin 5.5.11
	
	Communication Interfaces: (Isaac)
  The auction system will use Apache HTTP protocol to communicate on the internet with TCP/IP and will connect MySQL database. 

	Memory Constraints: (Mark-Anthony)
	TBD

	Operations: (Mark-Anthony)
  Throughout the program the user will have many operations to perform such as, bidding for an item from another user, 
  placing an item up for auction.  There will also be certain operations that could happen without the user needing to be 
  active, such as favoriting an item for later and receiving notifications about the status of the item.  

	Site Adaptation Requirements: (Isaac)
  TBD

Production Functions: (Mark-Anthony)
Bidding for an item:  When an item is up for auction the user will be able to place a bid for the item, every user will 
be given an opportunity to outbid the previous bid for the item.

Buyout Price:  During an auction a user may choose to pay the buyout price to immediately win the item.  
This can only occur if the current bid is lower than the buyout price, once the bid is higher than the buyout price the 
latest bid will be the set price for the item.

Placing an item up for auction:  A user will be allowed to place an item up for auction on the website.  
They will have to enter the name of the item, a description, a photo is required, and some more info about when 
they want the auction to be held and for how long, as well as the buyout price. 

User Characteristics: (Luci)
Admin - have the ability to ban/suspend users and maintain overall inspection. Should be knowledgeable in maintaining 
a website, higher level computer knowledge.
User (Auctioneer/Bidder) - clients that can auction and bid items using a sign-in function with accounts. Have a basic 
level of computer knowledge.

Limitations: (Luci)
Age limitation - users must be 18 years or older
safety/security concerns (secure website)
Browser functionality/reliability

Assumptions and Dependencies: (Luci)
Assume we have a working website
Users know how to sign up for an account
Users will actually auction items/no biddable items
Shipping will be dealt through third party
Credit cards are valid

Apportioning of Requirements:
TBD/NA

Specific Requirements: (Thomas)
The functional requirements of our website is the process of a user selling, bidding, the monetary transaction of an 
item, and a list of recommended items. The user has to be able to create an account and login. A user with an account 
has to be able to put any item deemed legal and appropriate by either the system or administrator. A user selling an 
item must be able to set the starting bid, and time range the item is open for auction. After an item is available for 
auction, users excluding the seller must be able to make a bid at a price of their choosing with the minimum set by the 
starting bid. The website must keep track of the current highest bid made by a user and remember said user until the next 
highest bid. After the time window for an item to be auctioned closes, the current highest bidder must proceed with the 
monetary transaction process to pay for the item. The monetary transaction process must include transferring money from 
the buying user to the selling user as well as a small percentage towards an account approved for the website’s profits. 
The user must be able to see a list of recommended items after a successful monetary transaction and during the bidding.

The performance requirements of the website is to keep up with which user has the highest bid and have multiple users bid 
at the same time.

The design constraints of the website are currently to be as simple as possible as no team member has prior experience 
with creating a website with multi-user capacity. Additionally, the cost of creating the website must be kept as close 
to zero dollars as possible.

External Interfaces: (Thomas)
The user interface of the website is graphical and text based. There will be graphical icons that serve as links to a 
section of the website to perform a functionality. Text that makes up an item’s name will be able to serve as a link to 
move the user to that item’s auction page if available.

The hardware interfaces are the keyboard, mouse, and scroll wheel for user input.

The software interface is the connection between the website and a monetary transaction system that handles money between 
two users and an approved account to hold the website’s profits.

The communication interface required to use the website is a web browser, email, and standard network server 
communication protocols.

Functions: (Thomas)
This section is to be determined after researching how to create a website and what is needed for a successful auction process.

Usability Requirements: (Thomas)
The user must be able to move into different sections of the website such as from a search results page to the auction page. 
ther usability requirements are to be determined after researching how to create a website and what is needed for a successful 
auction process.

Performance Requirements: (Luci)
Support at least 3 users at once. (TBD)
Response time to a bid should less than 5 seconds.
Login should should take less than 5 seconds.
Once an item is up for auction, users will be able to see it instantly when refreshed.
Banning/suspensions should be in effect within 5 seconds of admins input.
Bidding is real time, able to see the timer & top bid.

Verification:
TBD / NA

Supporting Information: (Isaac)
Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD)
TBD UML
